MScAC
MScAC
MScAC
MScAC
MScAC
STUDENT HANDBOOK 2025–2026
MScAC – STUDENT HANDBOOK 2025/26
Congratulations on your acceptance to the Master of Science in Applied Computing (MScAC) program!
The MScAC Student Handbook describes degree requirements, financial support, and other matters of
interest to MScAC students. The handbook is revised annually. Students will be notified by e-mail of
significant changes and upcoming deadlines. Please visit the MScAC website regularly at
mscac.utoronto.ca
DEPARTMENT BUILDINGS
The Department of Computer Science is located in four buildings on the downtown (St. George) campus
of the University of Toronto:
• 700 University (9th Floor, 700 University Avenue) [MScAC offices and student space are here]
• Bahen Centre for Information Technology (40 St. George Street)
• D.L. Pratt Building (6 King’s College Road)
• Sandford Fleming Building (10 King’s College Road)
1
IMPORTANT CONTACTS
ROLE NAME Academic Director,
Professional Programs Arvind Gupta Associate Chair, Graduate
Students Faith Ellen Associate Chair, Graduate
Operations Angela Demke Brown Associate Director, Academic Paul Gries Concentration Lead, Applied
Mathematics Mary Pugh Concentration Lead, Artificial
Intelligence in Healthcare Anna Goldenberg Concentration Lead,
Data Science Meredith Franklin Concentration Lead, Data
Science for Biology Qian Lin Concentration Lead, Quantum
Computing TBA Associate Director,
Partnerships Daniel Giovannini Development Officer Research and Business
Maurizio Ficocelli Development Officer Research and Business
Sulav Sharma Development Officer Research and Business
Daniele Chirico Development Officer Research and Business
Murtuza Rajkotwala Development Officer Research and Business
Siphelele Danisa Associate Director, MScAC
Administration Claire Mosses Interim Program Manager,
MScAC Susan Lee LOCATION E-MAIL
9019 arvind.gupta@utoronto.ca
team@mscac.utoronto.ca
BA 4208 gradchair@cs.toronto.edu
BA 5228 gradchair@cs.toronto.edu
9019 pgries@cs.toronto.edu
BA 6268 mpugh@math.utoronto.ca
PT 286C anna.goldenberg@utoronto.ca
9087 meredith.franklin@utoronto.ca
RW 603 neuroqian.lin@utoronto.ca
TBA TBA
9019 dgiovannini@cs.toronto.edu
team@mscac.utoronto.ca
9019 mficocelli@cs.toronto.edu
team@mscac.utoronto.ca
9019 sulav.sharma@utoronto.ca
team@mscac.utoronto.ca
9019 daniele.chirico@utoronto.ca
team@mscac.utoronto.ca
9019 murtuza.rajkotwala@utoronto.ca
team@mscac.utoronto.ca
9019 siphelele.danisa@utoronto.ca
team@mscac.utoronto.ca
9019 claire.mosses@mscac.utoronto.ca
team@mscac.utoronto.ca
9019 team@mscac.utoronto.ca
2
Recruitment and Admissions
Officer Lisha Guo 9019 lisha.guo@utoronto.ca
Executive Assistant Myles Costales 9019 m.costales@utoronto.ca
Technical Support Alan Rosenthal BA 3218 pocpm@cs.toronto.edu
Computer Science
Graduate Office N/A BA 4281 gradoffice@cs.toronto.edu
3
IMPORTANT DATES 2025/26
Fall 2025
First draft of study plans due June 13
Pre-enrolment courses available to view July 23
Data Science Bootcamp (Data Science Concentration students only) July 7 – July 30
Registration opens July 14
Enrolment in MAT courses begins TBC
Enrolment in CS Fall and Winter courses begins July 28
Enrolment in STA courses begins
(Data Science concentration students) TBC
MScAC Refresher Training (Linear algebra & probability) July 28 – August 1
Enrolment in PHY courses begins TBC
Enrolment in ECE courses begins TBC
Enrolment in CSB/MMG courses begins TBC
Enrolment in STA courses beings
(Other concentration students) TBC
Recommended tuition fee payment deadline for fees applicable to the Fall
semester. August 22
Orientation 2025 & Communication for Computer Scientists starts. MScAC
Refresher Training will be delivered during this week. Week beginning August 25
Clearing admission conditions August 31
Fall graduate courses in CS begin* September 2
Registration ends. Payment deadline for any unpaid Fall semester tuition
and fees. September 12
Final date to add Fall courses September 17
Final date to drop Fall courses without academic penalty October 27
MScAC Student Personal Time Off October 27 – October 31
Applied Research in Action (ARIA) November 13
Payment deadline for any unpaid Winter semester tuition and fees November 30
Fall term ends December 23
University closed for winter break December 24, 2025 –
January 4, 2026
Winter 2026
University re-opens January 5
Winter graduate courses in CS begin* January 5
Fall 2025 course grades available January 14
Final date to add Winter courses January 19
MScAC Internship Expo January 19 – January 23
MScAC Student Personal Time Off February 16 – 20
Final date to drop Winter courses without academic penalty February 27
Winter term classes end April
4
Personal time off (remaining 5 days) - exam schedule/internship-finding
dependent April
April
Final exams for cross-listed courses will be scheduled during this month *For courses outside of CS, check with the home department.
Full details of sessional dates throughout the academic year can be found on the School of Graduate
Studies (SGS) website: sgs.calendar.utoronto.ca/sessional-dates
5
FEES AND FINANCES
The MScAC is a stand-alone program that is not funded through the Department of Computer Science
operating budget. Students in the program do not generally have an option to defer their fees*. You are
expected to pay the minimum amount to register by September 12, 2025, to avoid cancellation of your
“invited” registration status.
Domestic students may be eligible for government loans such as OSAP, the Ontario Student Assistance
Program. See: ontario.ca/page/osap-ontario-student-assistance-program
You are eligible to apply for Teaching Assistantship positions. These will be posted in late June/early
July, and all students in the graduate programs are invited to apply at that time. Please note you will
need to apply for a TA position to be made an offer. Without an application, positions will not be offered.
You will be notified about the course(s) for which you were selected as a Teaching Assistant before or
during the first full week of September.
Students in financial difficulty may wish to consult a Financial Advisor at the School of Graduate Studies,
63 St. George Street. An advisor can help with budgeting and may have knowledge of various bursaries,
grants, loans or other financial aid to help a student experiencing financial hardship.
See: sgs.utoronto.ca/awards-funding/financial-aid-advising
*Students in receipt of OSAP, CSL, US student loans, or any major awards such as the Vector Scholarship in AI that
cover the Minimum Required Payment may be able to defer their fees.
6
COURSE INFORMATION
Course Overview
The MScAC program is a 16-month applied research program designed to educate the next generation
of world-class innovators. Students enrol in advanced graduate courses according to the concentration
requirements. They also complete an eight-month applied research internship, usually paid, based at
an industry partner.
Typical program schedule for MScAC students
Year 1
Semester 1:
September – December
Year 1
Semester 2:
January – April
Year 1
Semester 3:
May – August
Year 2
Semester 4:
September – December
CSC2701H CSC2701H CSC2702H CSC2702H
Two approved
graduate courses
Two approved
graduate courses
Applied research
internship
Applied research
Internship
Resume preparation
Internship search begins
Industry partner nights
MScAC Internship
Expo & interviews
Applied Research in
Action (ARIA) Showcase
+ final report submission
COURSE REQUIREMENTS
Students will spend the first eight months (two semesters) of the program completing their technical
graduate courses as well as CSC2701H (Communication for Computer Scientists). CSC2702H
(Technical Entrepreneurship) will be completed during the second eight months, normally in
conjunction with the full-time applied research internship.
All students must complete a minimum of four technical graduate courses, in accordance with their
concentration requirements. These must be equivalent to at least 2.0 Full Course Equivalents (FCEs)
and all students must show satisfactory academic progress (defined as a minimum passing grade of B-
(70%) in each course). If a student has not made satisfactory academic progress by the end of
the second semester, they must immediately contact the Associate Director, MScAC
Administration to determine the options and next steps.
It is an individual student’s responsibility to ensure course selection meets the requirements of the
concentration they are registered in. Degree Explorer should be utilized to ensure requirements are
met. Students who have not met their concentration requirements by the end of the second semester
will be required to take additional courses.
Only students who make satisfactory academic progress in the first two semesters may proceed to the
internship component of the program.
COURSE SELECTION
Applied Mathematics Concentration
Students are required to complete:
• 2 graduate courses (1.0 FCE) from the Department of Computer Science course schedule in
two different groups
• 2 graduate courses (1.0 FCE) from the Department of Mathematics at 1000-level or higher
7
Course from other departments may be eligible to fulfill the mathematics requirements. Course
selection must be approved by the Applied Mathematics Concentration Lead.
Artificial Intelligence Concentration
Students are required to complete:
• Two graduate courses (1.0 FCE) from the core list of Artificial Intelligence courses.
• One graduate course (0.5 FCE) selected from Group 2 (AI) courses outside the core list.
• One graduate course (0.5 FCE) chosen from Groups 1, 3, or 4 (outside of AI).
Students may request a waiver of one AI core course requirement by demonstrating mastery of
equivalent material (usually evidenced through completion of courses at senior undergraduate level).
Waivers are usually applied for during the study plan submission process. All waivers are subject to
approval of the Academic Director, Professional Programs. The waiver does not reduce the number of
courses students are required to take. Instead, it allows students to take an additional AI course outside
the core list. In all cases, students must complete 1.5 FCE in AI courses.
Core Artificial Intelligence Courses
Course Code Course Title
AER1513H State Estimation for Aerospace Vehicles
AER1517H Control for Robotics
CSC2501H Computational Linguistics
CSC2502H Knowledge Representation and Reasoning
CSC2503H Foundations of Computer Vision
CSC2511H Natural Language Computing
CSC2515H* Introduction to Machine Learning (exclusion: ECE1513H)
CSC2516H** Neural Networks and Deep Learning (exclusion: MIE1517H)
CSC2529H Computational Imaging
CSC2533H Foundations of Knowledge Representation
CSC2630H Introduction to Mobile Robotics
ECE1512H Digital Image Processing and Applications
ECE1513H* Introduction to Machine Learning (exclusion: CSC2515H)
MAT1510H Deep Learning, Theory and Data Science
MIE1517H** Introduction to Deep Learning (exclusion: CSC2516H)
Courses from other departments may be eligible to fulfill the non-core AI/non-AI course requirements.
Course selection must be approved by the Associate Director, Academic.
Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare Concentration
Students are required to complete:
• 1 graduate course (0.5 FCE) in Data Science from the approved list.
• 1 graduate course (0.5 FCE) from the approved list of Artificial Intelligence courses.
• 1 graduate course (0.5 FCE) from the approved list of courses in Group 3.
• 1 graduate course (0.5 FCE) from the approved list of LMP/MHI coursework from the approved
list.
Due to the variance of course schedule availability, approved courses will be provided during the study
plan solicitation process. Course selection must be approved by the Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare
Concentration Lead.
8
Computer Science Concentration
Students are required to complete:
• 4 graduate courses (2.0 FCE) from at least 2 of the 4 course groups. A maximum of 1 course
(0.5 FCE) from Group 2 (AI) will be counted towards the program requirements.
• 2 courses (1.0 FCE) must be from the Computer Science timetable (i.e. CSCXXXX course code).
• 2 courses (1.0 FCE) may be chosen from other departments pending approval by the MScAC
program.
Data Science Concentration
Students are required to complete:
• 2 graduate courses (1.0 FCE) from the Department of Computer Science course listings in two
different groups.
• 2 graduate courses (1.0 FCE) chosen from the STA2000-level courses or higher. This must
include STA2453H Data Science Methods, Collaboration and Communication. A maximum of
0.5 FCE may be chosen from the STA4500-level of six-week modular courses. Note that some
courses at STA4500 level and higher are six-week modular courses weighted at 0.25 FCE
each.
Courses from other departments may be eligible to fulfill the statistics requirements. Course selection
must be approved by the Data Science Concentration Lead.
Data Science for Biology
Students are required to complete:
• 2 graduate courses (1.0 FCE) from the Department of Computer Science course listings in two
different groups.
• 1 graduate course (0.5 FCE) from the Department of Cell & Systems Biology.
• 1 graduate course (0.5 FCE) with a focus on computational biology or bioinformatics chosen
from the approved course lists from the following departments: Cell & Systems Biology,
Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, Molecular Genetics or Statistics.
Quantum Computing Concentration
Students are required to complete:
• 2 graduate courses (1.0 FCE) from the Department of Computer Science course listings in two
different groups.
• 2 graduate courses (1.0 FCE) from the Department of Physics.
Courses from other departments may be eligible to fulfil the physics requirements.
All course selections are subject to approval by the Academic Director, Professional Programs
who may consult the relevant concentration lead as appropriate. Course substitutions may be
possible with approval of the Academic Director.
Additional information and considerations
To choose courses, start by reading the course descriptions, and correlating these with the courses
offered in the 2025-26 course schedule.
Breadth is important because you may find that your interests evolve as you become inspired by new
topics or become fascinated by emerging areas of application to industry. We strongly encourage you to
work with the MScAC program team and your respective concentration lead to seek out a varied set of
9
courses and benefit from the world-class expertise in the MScAC partner departments.
There are two possibilities for distributing your course work over the two semesters, as indicated below.
Option 1 (usual) Option 2 (less common, strategic)
Fall 2025 Two courses Fall 2025 Three courses
Winter 2026 Two courses Winter 2026 One course
Most students will follow Option 1. However, noting the significant work involved in arranging your
internship (usually during the Winter semester), some students may opt for Option 2. One strategy used
by some students is to enrol in several courses in the Fall semester to ascertain their interests and gauge
workload, “dropping down” to either two or three courses before the drop date. In making this decision, it
is important to remember that the greatest workload is normally at the end of the semester.
You will need approval from the Academic Director, Professional Programs for your course choices,
including any courses you choose outside of Computer Science. You may also require permission from
the respective department through their Graduate Administrator. This can be done by using the Add/Drop
course form available from the School of Graduate Studies (SGS) website and submitting it to the Interim
Program Manager.
You may wish to audit (sit in on) additional graduate courses. This is an excellent way to learn additional
material in areas of interest to you without the overhead of significant coursework. Please ask the course
instructor ahead of time if they will allow auditing, and/or request instructions from the respective
department’s Graduate Administrator on how to access the course, if permission is granted.
You should also participate in departmental and MScAC academic activities, such as seminars offered
by various research groups and industry partners. Seminars allow you to appreciate the latest research
in a field and are a chance to meet professors, industry partners, and other graduate students.
Changing Your Concentration
The concentration you have been admitted to is the one the admissions committee felt your academic
background and additional experience were best suited to. Requests to switch concentration will be
handled on a case-by-case basis and are subject to approval by the MScAC Academic Director,
Professional Programs and respective concentration lead.
To request a change of concentration, you should submit your request and supporting rationale in writing
to the Associate Director, MScAC Administration via: https://forms.office.com/r/PzbAjN88aX
COURSE SCHEDULES
See the current selection of graduate courses:
Aerospace Engineering (UTIAS)
Cell & Systems Biology (CSB)
Computer Science (CSC)
Ecology and Evolutionary Ecology (EEB)
Electrical & Computer Engineering (ECE)
Laboratory of Medicine and Pathology (LMP)
Mathematics (MAT)
Institute of Health Policy, Management and Evaluation (MHI)
Molecular Genetics (MGY)
Statistical Sciences (STA)
Physics (PHY)
10
THE INTERNSHIP PROCESS
The last eight months of the MScAC program are spent undertaking an applied research internship. This
internship is a formal requirement of the program. The internship can only be started after satisfactory
academic progress in the coursework is confirmed.
Work Permit
All international students must ensure that they hold a valid work permit allowing for full-time employment
with an industry partner in Canada during the internship period (normally May 1 – December 31). Most
students will apply for a co-op work permit. This should be applied for at the same time as the study
permit, so that the required documentation is in place from the start of the program. If the work permit is
not issued on arrival at the port-of-entry (normally Toronto), contact the Associate Director, MScAC
Administration for an updated letter so a work permit application can be submitted in Canada as quickly
as possible.
Details on how to apply for work permits are available from the Immigration and Citizenship Canada
website: canada.ca/en/immigration-refugees-citizenship/services/study-canada/work/intern.html
Safety Abroad
All students who travel outside of Canada for their internship should ensure that they register their travel
in advance with the University of Toronto Safety Abroad Registry. The Safety Abroad office is dedicated
to supporting safer student experiences abroad, and can offer support and emergency assistance.
What is an applied research internship?
An applied research internship usually involves research aggregation, namely the exploration and
synthesis of research results into an evaluation, study, or demonstrable, industrially relevant prototype.
In the service of a company, it is expected that you will leverage your graduate academic training and
past experience to explore new initiatives, improvements in process or product, or new designs that
could be of potential impact.
Your internship may require you to work on explorations that an industry partner company might not
otherwise perform. This requires a higher standard of creative or intellectual exploration than would
normally be encountered in a co-operative (co-op) work term. For example, a role consisting only of
programming tasks would likely not qualify as a research internship. That said, the scope of the MScAC
internship may also involve coding or systems development that leads to a contribution to the company’s
product or service offering.
Finding an internship
While the MScAC program has significant infrastructure to assist you with finding your internship, it is
your responsibility to secure your internship.
Conducting your own internship search
Students are encouraged to begin their own search for a suitable industry partner as soon as they have
been admitted to the MScAC program. The partner should be interested in hiring an applied research
intern and working with the MScAC Partnerships group to define a suitable applied research project.
There may be internship opportunities posted on an industry partner’s website, or projects that have
been discussed with an R&D lead in a setting such as an informational meeting or career fair. Students
should contact the MScAC Partnerships group so they are aware of any intended search and can
provide guidance in the search process. Progress updates must be provided to the Partnerships group.
Prior to a student accepting or declining an offer, a member of the Partnerships group must meet with
11
the intended industry partner to determine whether a project meets the program requirements. They will
discuss MScAC program details with the industry partner so that there is a clear understanding of the
requirements for a satisfactory applied research internship. This is critical since some companies may
not fully appreciate the uniqueness of an applied research internship (compared to a co-op). In our
experience, many typical co-op positions do not qualify as MScAC research internships and thus do not
meet the MScAC program degree requirements.
It is critical that once a student has identified a possible internship opportunity, they:
• Provide a member of the Partnerships group with a brief description of the proposed internship
project and
• Connect a member of the Partnerships group with the point of contact at the organization so that
the program requirements can be discussed. You must not accept an internship offer that has
not been approved by the MScAC Partnerships group.
The project template and guidelines for employers will be available via the Quercus Student Hub
(course code: CSC2703H).
Finding an internship through the MScAC Program
The typical internship-finding timeline for projects identified by our MScAC Partnerships group is as
follows.
Typical Internship-Finding Timeline
June 2025 – September 2025
• Students meet 1:1 with a member of the Partnerships group to discuss internship interests.
September 2025 – January 2026
• Students prepare a one-page resume. Between late October and January 2026, we iterate with
all students on their resumes to ensure the content is clear and accurate. Students also receive
training in how to conduct the internship search through “The Job Hunt” module in CSC2701H
(Communication for Computer Scientists). The MScAC Partnerships group will begin soliciting
projects from companies interested in hosting MScAC students for applied-research internships.
January 8, 2026
• Students will start reviewing the curated internship positions the program has identified.
Concurrently, industry partners with accepted internship projects will be given access to MScAC
student resumes. We encourage all students to send expressions of interest to industry partners
with projects of interest to them.
Week beginning January 19, 2026
• Industry partners visit campus for the multi-day MScAC Internship Expo. Students are strongly
encouraged to participate in all aspects of this event, including attending talks and meeting
industry partners. During and following this event, industry partners may contact you (and you
should contact them) for information and to schedule interviews. This process normally takes 2-
4 weeks but may go on longer as you become more aware of the diverse range of opportunities.
Early February until all students have found an internship
• Offer system opens. For an offer to be considered official by the program, an industry partner
must upload the offer into the MScAC Offer Management System. Students may only accept an
offer via the Offer Management System. Verbal offers made during the internship finding process
are not considered official and we strongly advise against declining interview opportunities or
other offers on the basis of these. Instead, only consider an offer official once it has been made
and accepted through the MScAC system.
12
All internships must be approved by the Academic Director, Professional Programs and have a
start date during the first week of May. Further details of the internship process will be given over
the course of the program.
Choosing your internship
Students may receive multiple internship offers. In considering which offer to accept we strongly
recommend looking beyond the compensation level to a number of more important factors:
• Quality of the research on offer
• Work environment you will be exposed to
• Team you will be working with
• Supervision you will receive
• Possibilities for personal growth and professional development.
Remember that the internship is the research component of the degree and addressing an interesting
challenge will help with future career plans.
Some of the most rewarding internships that past students undertook were with non-profit companies or
start-ups. These organizations may not have the ability to match salaries of larger firms but may
compensate for this in other ways.
Compensation
The MScAC Partnerships group advise all industry partners that the average funding level was
approximately $65K (CDN) over eight months for the previous year’s cohort. They also inform them of
various mechanisms they can use to help offset some of their costs. However, the average salary is not
a mandatory requirement and the internship compensation is decided by the industry partner. We will not
negotiate compensation with the company on behalf of any students.
Internship supervision
After accepting an internship offer from a company/organization, students are expected to find their
academic supervisor (a University of Toronto faculty member) with whom they will meet to address the
intellectual challenges of the research over the course of the internship. We require MScAC students to
formally meet with their academic supervisors a minimum of six times over the course of the internship
and provide suggested checkpoints accordingly. Each student will also have an industry supervisor
appointed by the company, to whom they will report. It is beneficial—but not required—for the academic
and industry supervisors to meet, so they can establish an effective plan to guide the internship work.
Selecting an academic supervisor
When selecting an academic supervisor, we recommend that students think broadly about who would be
suitable for the internship project. Students should look beyond faculty they have met during the courses,
bearing in mind that faculty can be selected from the MScAC collaborating departments and faculties
(Cell & Systems Biology, Computer Science, Engineering, Mathematics, Medicine, Statistics, Physics).
There may also be suitable faculty elsewhere in the University.
Other criteria you should consider includes:
• Availability: Will they be available to meet for regular supervisory meetings and sign documents
when they are due?
• Collegiality and Interpersonal Relationship: Does the communication and work style match?
What will be the working relationship be like?
• Expected Internship Goals: What is the goal for the internship? Does this supervisor have the
13
same or similar goals?
• Mentorship: What is the expectation for mentoring? Is there an alignment with long-term
development and personal support expectation?
• Experience: Have they supervised many students before? How successful were this
supervisor’s former students?
Internship Check-ins
Periodically during the internship, the Partnerships group will arrange formal check-in meetings with
students to ensure that the internship progress is on track. These meetings are held to ensure success
in completion of the program and are mandatory to attend.
Applied Research in Action (ARIA) Showcase
During the internship, students are required to participate in the ARIA showcase. ARIA is an opportunity
to present the research that has been performed during the internship and to highlight the
accomplishments within the program. This event has become incredibly popular, with attendees drawn
from academic and industry supervisors, prospective students, industry professionals, department
members, and MScAC alumni. Many past students have reported this event as critical to developing a
deep network of contacts.
Midway through the internship (late August/September 2026), we will request students provide materials
for the ARIA presentation and will detail the process for participation. Students are required to have all
ARIA materials approved by their internship organization and academic supervisor, prior to sharing them
with the MScAC team for use at the event. Elaborate on results and what additional research will be
completed (some information may not be available by the ARIA showcase). If there is any hinderance
with participation at ARIA, please contact the Associate Director, MScAC Administration
immediately to discuss.
Internship Report
Students are required to submit an “Internship Report” that details the research undertaken during the
internship. This report will be read and signed off by the academic and industry supervisors, and then by
the MScAC Academic Director. All students are required to submit their report and have it signed off by
the conclusion of the eight-month internship period. The internship report is an integral component of the
MScAC program requirements and must be deemed satisfactory for you to successfully graduate from
the program.
The internship report will not be distributed beyond the MScAC program administration. However,
students should be sensitive to their internship host’s confidential information and keep the report
sufficiently general to avoid divulging confidential industry partner information. Students should also have
their industry supervisors review reports ahead of submission to the academic supervisor or to the
MScAC program, to ensure that the level of detail being provided is appropriate. If there are any concerns
over what is being disclosed, a member of the Partnerships group should be contacted directly.
The report should include:
• Background information:
o The name of the company/organization and a short description of it.
o An overview and context of the overall problem the company/organization is looking to
address.
o Student role in addressing the problem and expected outcomes.
• Research goals and outcomes:
o Description of the research goals for the project.
o Summarization of the goals that were achieved.
o Literature review of the current state-of-the-art and relevant previous work.
14
• Methodologies you deployed:
o Details of the research that was either incorporated from other sources or performed by
the student.
o Purpose for each step and the consideration and choices that went into the
implementation or algorithmic choices.
• Results and discussions:
o Findings that addressed the goals and expected outcomes addressed in the beginning.
Figures, graphs, tables highlight these key findings.
• Conclusions and future research plans:
o Answer the research goal and question; summarize the “take home” points.
o How the company/organization will benefit from the work completed. For example, if a
new algorithm was developed, how else might it be used? If an advanced technique
was implemented and tested, what was learned that could influence future uses of that
technique? Other research questions that arise out of what was done and/or further
planned areas of development for this project.
o Any publications, patents, or other intellectual property that may come out of this work.
Students may also wish to include other issues as appropriate. A frequent question concerns the length of
the report. We are more concerned that all relevant issues have been adequately addressed, than we are
with measuring length. As a general guide, however, four pages is too short, and more than ten pages
may be too long.
Final Internship Report Submission Deadlines
The following deadlines should be met to ensure smooth processing of the final internship reports. Failure
to meet these (or any deadlines for final report revisions) may result in degree recommendations being
delayed, which can incur additional fees and delays to post-graduate work permit documentation being
issued.
Submission Due Date
Finalized internship report sent to the academic and
industry supervisors. December 1, 2026
Final report + all completion forms sent to the MScAC
Program Office. December 11, 2026
Final reports should not be submitted to the MScAC Program Office until both academic and
industry supervisors have reviewed and confirmed completion of the report.
Additional activities during the internship
It is expected that during the eight-month internship period students will expend the majority of their time
on the internship project and CSC2702H (Technical Entrepreneurship). Students should make every
effort to ensure the internship is successful. At times, students are presented with opportunities and
requirements to participate in other activities such as completing or auditing additional courses, teaching
assistantships, or attending conferences. Any additional activities must have approval from the industry
supervisor and the Academic Director, Professional Programs even if these are taking place outside of
the expected working hours.
15
To gain approval, we require the following documentation:
From the internship company/organization
• A formal letter on company/organization letterhead outlining:
o The activity being participated in. If the proposed activity is a course or TAship, the course
code and title should be included.
o Days and times of the activity
o A rationale for why this activity is essential to the internship
o Confirmation of approval from the host of the internship
From you
• A formal request outlining the reasons for participating in the specific activity.
These should be sent by e-mail, with the industry supervisor cc’ed, to the Associate Director, MScAC
Administration who will let student know if the request is approved.
Note: students who are requesting to enrol in courses during the internship should be aware that priority
in courses will be given to those students who need courses to meet their program requirements.
Approval to enrol in high demand courses may not be granted.
Completing the Internship & Graduating from the MScAC Program
In early November 2026, we will distribute the documentation required to formally complete the degree.
This will include the formal sign-off forms that require signatures from the industry and academic
supervisors for the internship report, an “MScAC Completion” form and “Convocation Completion” form
with the latter two submitted to the MScAC Program Office. Once these documents are submitted and
accepted, MScAC will submit a “Recommendation for a Master’s Degree” to the School of Graduate
Studies and each student will be added to the convocation register. A graduation package will be sent
from the Office of Convocation with information regarding convocation dates, tickets, etc. Please note
that, while the program formally concludes by December 31, 2026, the degree will not be confirmed
complete until January 2027. We will notify students when their individual degree recommendation has
been submitted.
Transition to PhD
Students often express an interest in applying to the PhD program, following completion of their MScAC
degree. There are two options to progress to the PhD program in the Department of Computer Science, at
the University of Toronto. Criteria for each option is listed below. If you are considering either of the two
options, please contact team@mscac.utoronto.ca so that the MScAC team can best support you.
Option 1
• Can only be used if:
o Your intended academic supervisor is a faculty member in Computer Science with a CS-
SGS membership*
o Your intended academic supervisor has confirmed that they are willing to supervise your
PhD studies.
o You intend to start your PhD immediately after completion of the MScAC (January).
*If your intended academic supervisor is not from Computer Science, please confirm the specific
process with their respective department. The above process will not apply.
16
• Required documents:
o Final report of such quality as to meet the standard required for MSc students to transition
to the PhD program. The MScAC final report may include any additional research papers
that the student has produced during the MScAC program. The contribution of the student
to these additional research papers must be made explicit.
o Detailed letters of recommendation from two faculty members with a CS-SGS
membership. Both must have evaluated your MScAC report and have the necessary
domain expertise to evaluate the research contribution of the report.
 Recommendation letters must include a letter from your intended PhD supervisor.
If your intended PhD supervisor was not your MScAC academic supervisor, your
MScAC academic supervisor must provide the second letter.
 The intended PhD supervisor must also provide evidence to the DCS Computer
Science Graduate Office that they have sufficient funds to support the student.
• Application process:
o Submit the required documents to the DCS Graduate Office by December 15.
• Post document submission:
o Your application will be reviewed by the Associate Chair, Graduate Studies. You/your
intended supervisor may be contacted to confirm any further details as necessary.
o If your application is successful, you will be asked by the DCS Graduate Office to complete
an SGS admission application and pay the application fee. This is required to register in
the PhD program. You will start the PhD program in January, and receive 44 months of
funding, provided you maintain satisfactory academic progress.
 This funding duration is equivalent to the guaranteed funding of 43 months
received by students who transition from the MSc to the PhD, plus the 1 month of
funding they receive while dually registered in both programs.
Option 2
• Should be used if:
o You wish to be considered for admission to the PhD program in Computer Science but do
not have confirmation from an academic supervisor in Computer Science, willing to
supervise your PhD studies.
• AND/OR
o You would like to start your PhD from September (or later), following completion of the
MScAC degree.
• Required documents and information:
o Transcripts
o CV
o Statement of purpose
o Contact information for three (3) people who have agreed to write letters of
recommendation on your behalf.
• Application process:
o Apply in the regular application cycle via GradApp by the published application deadline.
For Computer Science, this is usually on or around December 1. Check the department
website in advance for the applicable date.
17
• Following the application:
o Your application will be reviewed by Computer Science faculty, alongside all applications
received.
o If your application is successful, you will receive an offer of admission to the PhD program
starting the subsequent September. You will receive 48 months of funding, provided you
maintain satisfactory progress.
STUDENT POLICIES
University of Toronto Policies
The University of Toronto has various policies in place governing graduate activity. Particularly relevant
to students in the MScAC program are those policies relating to Academic Integrity, Ethics & Conduct.
Full details of all the policies applicable to you during your time as a student with the Department of
Computer Science: sgs.utoronto.ca/policies-guidelines
Personal Time Off Policy
All graduate students in programs over 12 months in duration are encouraged to take up to 15 business
days per academic year in personal time off, in addition to statutory holidays and days designated as
university closures or holidays. Due to the structure of the MScAC program, the timing of the personal
time off is determined by the MScAC Program team, considering both coursework and internship
schedules. In line with this policy, designated time off periods during the first eight months of the
program have been identified.
DEPARTMENT & UNIVERSITY RESOURCES
MARKETING AND COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
The Department of Computer Science has a dedicated office responsible for communications and
marketing to ensure the program’s key audiences are aware of the strengths and achievements of our
students, alumni, faculty, and staff. They organize several events throughout the year, including the
Applied Research in Action Showcase (ARIA) and networking activities involving alumni including former
MScAC graduates.
Students are also invited to participate in activities hosted by the Department of Computer Science, such
as seminars and social activities. Details of upcoming events will be posted on the Department’s event
calendar at https://web.cs.toronto.edu/events
If students have an exciting story or achievement to share, they should reach out to our communications
office by contacting communications@cs.toronto.edu We regularly seek to profile MScAC students as
part of our graduate program and research activities and students work could appear in a local news
publication, appear on social media, or be featured as part of U of T News!
The MScAC alumni network is also there to help support students through mentorship and various
discussion forum. They may also organise specific activities to link you with the MScAC alumni
community. All students become part of this network upon graduation, and we encourage you to be an
active member.
18
COMPUTER FACILITIES
As a graduate student in the Department of Computer Science, you have access to a variety of computer
resources in the department. * The “apps” servers are for e-mail and text editing (etc.), and the “comps”
servers are for heavy computation. Read more at support.cs.toronto.edu
Your “CSLab account” is the key to a number of departmental services. You will receive e-mail about
activating this prior to starting the program. Please activate as soon as possible. The account also gives
you an e-mail address and once you have a CS e-mail address**, people will start e-mailing you at this
address. Please either read your CS inbox directly or forward incoming mail to an account that you do
read.
Your first point of contact for assistance with computing facilities is the MScAC “POC” (point of contact) at
pocpm@cs.toronto.edu. The POC has written an introductory list of computing topics at
https://www.cs.toronto.edu/~pocpm/, including one about reading your CS e-mail.
*We strongly recommend that you bring a laptop with you. An external monitor, keyboard and mouse will
be made available to you in the MScAC offices.
**You will also have a university e-mail address ending in mail.utoronto.ca, which you would have
enabled at the start of your studies at the University of Toronto. Announcements from the university and
Quercus, the university’s student portal and learning management system, will be sent to this account.
STUDENT FORMS AND LETTERS
During your time in the department, you may require student forms or letters for actions such as
adding/dropping courses, taking leaves of absence, or for immigration purposes. See: uoft.me/SGS-
formsletters. Alternatively, visit the MScAC Program Office for help on where to find these documents.
U OF T LIBRARY SERVICES
The University of Toronto Libraries system is the largest academic library in Canada and is ranked third
among peer institutions in North America. Our library services are accessible both in-person and online.
See: utoronto.ca/libraries
GRADUATE CENTRE FOR ACADEMIC COMMUNICATION (GCAC)
The Graduate Centre for Academic Communication provides graduate students with advanced training in
academic writing and speaking. All programs are free, and various types of support are provided,
designed to target the needs of both native and non-native speakers.
See: sgs.utoronto.ca/resources-supports/gcac
CENTRE FOR INTERNATIONAL EXPERIENCE (CIE)
CIE offers the assistance of international transition advisors who support students adjusting to life in
Canada. At CIE you can seek advice about Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC)
documentation and processes, including study and work permits. CIE also administers the University
Health Insurance Plan (UHIP) for international students. See: internationalexperience.utoronto.ca
SAFETY
It is the goal of the University of Toronto to do everything possible to create an environment where
students and staff can feel safe to live and work. See: safety.utoronto.ca
19
HEALTH & WELLNESS
The University of Toronto offers a wide range of services to all its students to support them in achieving
their personal and academic best. See: healthandwellness.utoronto.ca and uoft.me/SGS-wellness
QUICK LINKS
Need more information? The following links may be helpful.
CS Department Website web.cs.toronto.edu
CS Graduate Course Schedule uoft.me/csgradtimetable
SGS Calendar sgs.calendar.utoronto.ca
SGS Forms uoft.me/SGS-formsletters
Registration & Enrolment uoft.me/SGS-enrol
Graduate Fees uoft.me/SGS-gradfees
U of T Student Accounts fees.utoronto.ca
Financial Aid sgs.utoronto.ca/awards-funding/financial-aid-advising
Centre for International Experience internationalexperience.utoronto.ca
U of T Libraries utoronto.ca/libraries
U of T Housing housing.utoronto.ca
Graduate Wellness Services uoft.me/SGS-wellness
U of T Recreation recreation.utoronto.ca
Career & Co-Curricular Learning
Network (CLNx) clnx.utoronto.ca
sgs.utoronto.ca/policies-guidelines
U of T Policies & Guidelines 20